Chatgpt is an AI assistant that helps you with research, notes, translation, ideas or inspiration. Chagpt can help you get things started like if your working on a project and you dont have any ideas

GitHub is a web-based platform primarily used for version control and collaborative software development. It uses Git, a distributed version control system allowing multiple people to work on multiple projects.

Monkeytype is an online typing test and practice platform that helps users improve their typing speed and accuracy. It offers a variety of features

Adobe Firefly is a suite of generative AI tools developed by Adobe, aimed at enhancing creativity and streamlining design workflows.

Debian (Which is what I am using right now) is a popular and influential open-sourced operation system [OS] based on the Linux kernal
The terminal has many uses which has commands that you can practice with, Here are my notes for commands:


Basic terminal navigation:

uname –a : display system
lsb_release -a : shows the Debian version currently installed
cat  / etc/os/release : prints information about the [OS] (Operating system)
cat filename.txt : To view contents of a file
xdg-open filename.pdf : To open a file in default application

Directory commands:

pwd : Displays your current directory 
1s : Lists files and directories 
1s –1 : Detailed view 
1s –a : shows hidden files 
cd : changes the directory 
cd /path/to/directory : Absolute path 
cd Documents : relative path 
cd ~ : (go to home directory) 
cd .. : (move up one directory) 
touch filename.txt : Creates an empty file 
mkdir myfolder : Creates a new directory
ls : view file permissions
chmod u+x filename : Adds exucute permissions for the user
chown : Modifies file permissions
su - : Enter the root directory
touch : creates a file
nano : edits a file
rm : removes file
mv : Moves a file
cp : Copies a file


Git commands :

git init : Initializes a git repository
git add : Stages changes
git commit -m : Commits changes, or committing changes
git push : Pushing changes to github 
git pull : Pulling updates to github
git branch : Shows branches
git checkout : -b : Creates new branches

Sudo commands :

sudo apt update : Updates the list of available packages
sudo apt upgrade : Upgrades all installed packages to the latest version
sudo apt install package_name : Installs the specified package
sudo apt remove package_name :  Removes the specified package 
sudo apt search package_name : Searches for a package in the repositories.
sudo apt show package_name : Displays detailed information about a specified package
sudo apt autoremove : Removes unnecessary packages that were automatically installed
sudo reboot : Reboots the system
sudo shutdown now : Immediately shuts down the system.
sudo passwd root : changes password for the root user
sudo nano /path/to/file : Opens specified file for editing with nano as a super user
sudo journalctl : Displays logs collected by the sytemd journal.

Shell scripts :

echo : Displays a line of text or the value of a variable on to the screen
if : Checks a condition, if true, exucutes a block of code 
elif : Lets you specify a new condition if previous condition is false
else : Allows you to specify commands that should run when none of the previous conditions are met 
break : Exit a loop early
while : Loop while a condition is true
for : Loop through items
case : Simplify multiple conditions
continue : Skip to the next iteration in a loop
fi : Close an if statement.
esac : Close a case statement, similar to how fi closes an if block.
$ :  Accesses the value stored in the name variable and prints it
| : Pass the output of one command as input to another command.
read : Reads the user inputs 
srand : Seeds the random number generator.
min : Scales the range for smallest
rand : Generates a random number between 1 and 0.
max : Scales the range for the Largest
declare : To declare variables, set their attributes, or create functions.
printf : Used to format and print data, much like it is used in languages like C
%.2f : Format specifier in shell script "printf"
{    } : Has several uses depending on the context.







